# Fridge Buddy: Your Waste-Reducing Smart Refrigerator Companion
Food waste is a significant issue in the United States, with a substantial portion occurring as a result of grocery spoiling in households. Fridge Buddy aims to combat this problem by empowering users to manage food items efficiently and reduce food waste by transforming traditional refrigerators into smart appliances. Fridge Buddy is a mobile application and an easily mountable touchscreen that tracks item inventory, synchronizes data across multiple devices, notifies users when expiration dates are near, and suggests ways to help users best make use of their grocery items. Users will be able to easily view, add, remove, and update items using a touchscreen interface that easily mounts onto existing refrigerators, supported with an optional mobile application. The data displayed and modified between these two interfaces will be synchronized through a cloud backend, ensuring that user data is always up-to-date. Users will also be provided access to a recipe suggestion feature to help them more optimally use their existing food, prioritizing items that will soon expire. Fridge Buddy empowers users to better manage food at home, reduce waste, and save money on groceries using its low-cost, effective solution.

## Project Overview
The Fridge Buddy application comprises of a React Native frontend application for both the touchscreen refrigerator attachment and mobile devices. The application frontend includes four main pages:

- **Home Page**: The main page for displaying and managing the current user's item inventory. Also used for generating recipes based on selected user items.
- **Scanner Page**: Camera page for inputting user items via barcode scanning or smartscanning.
- **Recipe Page**: Page for displaying saved and recently searched recipes, as well as allowing users to search for recipes by name.
- **Settings Page**: Page for displaying user information, as well as handling user authentication and signing out.

The application's storage and computational backend is powered by Amazon Web Services. The services used in the AWS backend are DynamoDB (AWS’s distributed NoSQL database service, used for storing user, item, and recipe information), Lambda (AWS’s computing platform that allows users to execute specified code as containerized workloads, used for running calls to 3rd party APIs), and Cognito (AWS's identity platform, used for user authentication). The frontend and backend are connected using the AWS Amplify toolkit and React Native library that enable users to connect frontend applications to backend AWS services. Fridge Buddy uses AppSync GraphQL as the middleware by creating a GraphQL schema and resolvers that define how the React Native application can access and call upon the DynamoDB and Lambda backend services.

Listed below are descriptions of the Fridge Buddy application features, as well as links to documentation PDFs.

### Project Documentation
- [User Manual](https://github.com/Fridge-Buddy/ui/blob/main/docs/Fridge%20Buddy%20User%20Manual.pdf)
- [First Prototype Testing Report](https://github.com/Fridge-Buddy/ui/blob/main/docs/First%20Prototype%20Test.pdf)
- [Second Prototype Testing Report](https://github.com/Fridge-Buddy/ui/blob/main/docs/Second%20Prototype%20Test.pdf)
- [Final Prototype Testing Report](https://github.com/Fridge-Buddy/ui/blob/main/docs/Final%20Prototype%20Test.pdf)

### Item Inventory Management
The user can view their current item inventory on the Home page of the Fridge Buddy tablet and mobile app. A user’s items will synchronize across devices as long as they are connected to the Internet and logged in with their Fridge Buddy account. Items are stored in the backend using DynamoDB, with CRUD operations being connected to the React Native application using AWS AppSync using a GraphQL API. Items are defined in the backend using the following schema:

- pk: String (User ID, partition key for DynamoDB) (required, not displayed)
- sk: String (Item ID, sort key for DynamoDB) (required, not displayed)
- UPC: String (Universal Product Code used in barcodes) (not required, not displayed)
- name: String (Name of item) (required, displayed)
- category: String (Food category) (optional, displayed)
- calories: String (Number of calories) (optional, displayed)
- exp_date: Int (Expiration Date) (optional, displayed)
- added_date: Int (Date item was added to user) (optional, not displayed)
- quantity: Int (Item quantity) (optional, displayed)
- prod_name: String (General product name used for recipes, generated by app) (required, not displayed)

### Item Input Methods


#### Manual Item Input

#### Barcode Scanning

#### Smartscanning

### Expiration Date Prediction

### Recipe Suggestion / Searching

### User Authentication

## Product Cloud Backend

## Installation Instructions

## Project State
Although we would add on more features if we had more time to work on the project, Fridge Buddy is largely in a completed state. We managed to complete the minimum viable product that we had intended, with reach goals such as creating a custom tablet, local storage of item information using AWS DataStore, voice activation, and implementing receipt scanning ultimately becoming out of scope of the project timeline. Of course, though, there's always room for polishing.



Engineering Addendum (4000 - 12000 characters)

Please, please please work on your Githubs.  It should incldue an excellent README file explaining the project, algorithms you used and developed, demos, isntallation instructions, etc.  It should be a product quality GitHub.

Use a QR code for your poster.  

Also prepare a video demo.  Put a QR code for demo in your poster.


The Engineering Addendum is quick-start documentation written to any future team that may continue
to work on your project. This is where you outline the gotchas of your project, types of things to look out
for, the current state of the project, etc. The purpose of README.md is to save any future team weeks
of detective work just to get to where you are today. Think back to what types of things you had wished
you knew earlier, doing future teams a favor by passing that knowledge along. 
